---
layout: post
title: NLog 4.4 is live!
---

NLog 4.4 contains new features, performance improvements and made it easier 
to write custom components (e.g. targets, layout renderers) for NLog!

A lot stuff has been contributed by the community! Thanks for making NLog great!

## Main features

### WebServiceTarget support for JSON & XML 
The WebServiceTarget was always a bit odd as it was posting the data Form-encoded (application/x-www-form-urlencoded).
This has now been fixed with the support for JSON and XML, just pick one!

Example

```xml
<target type='WebService'
        name='ws'
        url='http://localhost:1234/logme'
        protocol='JsonPost' 
        encoding='UTF-8'   >
    <parameter name='param1' type='System.String' layout='${message}'/> 
    <parameter name='param2' type='System.String' layout='${level}'/>
</target>
```



### Injecting JSON serializer into NLog
With the support of JSON in the WebServiceTarget, it could be important to give the freedom 
of choosing your JSON serializer implementation. 
This implementation will be also used for all other JSON serialisation in NLog, like the JsonLayout.

We really like JSON.NET, but we don't like to have a dependecy on it! It's a great library, 
but it could lead to issues with strong names and other versions in your project. 
See also [the statement of RestSharp library](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/restsharp/yjGCtOnEYHk/XbKZi0yjN8cJ) (which is also a great library)  

So we have now an own implementation, which is sufficient for most cases. 

Do you like to choose your implementation? Implement `SerializeObject(..)` in `IJsonSerializer` and set it to `ConfigurationItemFactory.JsonSerializer`.

### JSON layout support for all-event-properties
The JsonLayout has two new properties which help you creating better json documents: 

- includeAllProperties: Include all events properties of a logevent? default: false. Introduced in NLog 4.4
- excludeProperties: comma separated string with names which properties to exclude. Only used when includeAllProperties is true. Case sensitive. Default empty When a name contains a comma, single quote the value. E.g. 'value,withquote',value2. Introduced in NLog 4.4

Example:

```xml
<layout xsi:type="JsonLayout" includeAllProperties="true" excludeProperties="BadPropertyName1, BadProperty2">
    <field name="message" layout="My message for you is this ${message}" />
</layout>
```

### Don't stop logging when there is something wrong in the layout
Previously if you made an error in a layout, e.g. typos:

```xml
 <target name="file" xsi:type="File"
            layout="${message} ${oops-I-made-a-typo}" >
```

or just using a layout renderer from a non-included package, nothing get logged!

This is unneeded and now we are skipping the invalid parts. The invalid parts are replace with an empty string.

NB: If `throwExceptions` or `throwConfigExceptions` is `true`, there will be still an error thrown



### Lamba Function layout renderers
Layout renders (those things between `${}`) could help you writing context information.

Since NLog 4.4 there a new way to create a custom layout renderer, which could be written on one line!

The new `LayoutRenderer.Register` accepts a lamba function, 
which accepts 1 or 2 parameters and should return a `string`.

- 1 parameter: the `logEventInfo`.
- 2 parameters: `logEventInfo` and the current NLog config.

Examples 

```c#
//register ${text-fixed}
LayoutRenderer.Register("test-fixed", (logEvent) => "2");

//register ${trace-identifier}
LayoutRenderer.Register("trace-identifier", (logEvent) => HttpContext.Current.TraceIdentifier);

//Using logEventInfo, ${message-length}
LayoutRenderer.Register("message-length", (logEvent) => logEvent.Message.Length);

//Using config, ${targetCount}
LayoutRenderer.Register("targetCount",(logEvent, config) => config.AllTargets.Count);
```

See [the wiki](https://github.com/NLog/NLog/wiki/How%20to%20write%20a%20custom%20layout%20renderer)

### Make it easier to register custom layout / target / layoutrendeners

There is a new syntax Introduced so it's easier to register you custom extensions:

```c#
//target
Target.Register<MyNamespace.MyFirstTarget>("MyFirst"); //generic
Target.Register("MyFirst", typeof(MyNamespace.MyFirstTarget)); //OR, dynamic

//layout renderer
LayoutRenderer.Register<MyNamespace.MyFirstLayoutRenderer>("MyFirst"); //generic
LayoutRenderer.Register("MyFirst", typeof(MyNamespace.MyFirstLayoutRenderer)); //dynamic

//layout
Layout.Register<MyNamespace.CsvLayout>("csv"); //generic
Layout.Register("csv", typeof(MyNamespace.CsvLayout)); //dynamic
```

For more info, see [the wiki](https://github.com/NLog/NLog/wiki/Register%20your%20custom%20component)


### Collection types for custom extensions

Custom Targets, layout etc. could have properties. There are only limitations if you like to set them from the XML config.

The following types are supported

#### Allowed types
Allowed types for Targets, Layouts and Layout renderers.

- C# types: e.g. bool, char, decimal, double, float, int, uint, etc.
- Enums (use short name)
- `Encoding`
- `CultureInfo`
- `Type`
- `LineEndingMode` 
- `Uri`
- NLog types: `Layout`, `SimpleLayout` & `ConditionExpression`
- Types which has an implicit conversion from `string`
- Types which are using `TypeDescriptor` from `string` (not Silverlight)
- Collections, introduced in NLog 4.4. See section [Collection types](#user-content-collection-types])




#### Collection types
Introduced in NLog 4.4, the following collection types could be used.

Usage in XML: comma separated string. If the value contains a comma, single quote the whole value.

Examples:

- `value="one arg"`
- `value="1,2"`
- `value="value1,'value2,  with comma'"`

Collections of type: 

  -  `IList<T>` / `IList`
  - `IEnumerable<T>` / `IEnumerable` 
  - `ISet<T>` / `HashSet<T>`

with the following types: 

  - C# built in types (string, int, double, object)
  - enum (use short name)
  - culture, encoding, Type
  - not supported: Layout

Not supported:

- Arrays
- Non-generic `List` 
- Non-gereric `IList`
- Custom class implementing/inheriting from the collection classes/interfaces. (because of performance)


PS: .NET 3.5 has `HashSet` but not `ISet`

### added condition to AutoFlushWrappper
Something you like to flush only in special cases, e.g. sending a mail when there is an error.
Of course you would like to have also the trace logs in your mail, as that could help identifying the problem!

This is now possible by using the `Condition` property on `AutoFlushWrappper`

Example:

```xml
<target name="file" xsi:type="AutoFlushWrapper" condition="level >= LogLevel.Error">
  <target xsi:type="BufferingWrapper" ..>
    <target name="gmail" xsi:type="Mail"
            smtpServer="smtp.gmail.com"
            smtpPort="587"
            smtpAuthentication="Basic"	   
      
	/>
  </target>
</target>
```


### LimitingTargetWrapper 
Like sending mail but not every 10 seconds? 
With the LimitingTargetWrapper your can control the maximun events per interval.

Example, max 5 messages per 10 minutes

```xml
<target name='limiting' type='LimitingWrapper' messagelimit='5' interval='0:10:00'>
 <target name="gmail" xsi:type="Mail"
            smtpServer="smtp.gmail.com"
            smtpPort="587"
            smtpAuthentication="Basic"	   
      
	/>
</target>
```


### WindowsMultiProcessFileAppender
On Windows there is a new file writing implementation. From tests we have s 10-40% performance increase! 


### WebServiceTarget & ${UrlEncode} - Added standard support for UTF8 encoding, added support for RFC2396 & RFC3986
The URL encoding for the WebServiceTarget was not behaving to any RFC as far as we know. 
This has been changed!

For the WebServiceTarget & `${UrlEncode}`, 
NLog will by default encode parameters as UTF8 and escape special characters according to Rfc2396.

Also the following properties has been added to WebServiceTarget & `${UrlEncode}`

- escapeDataRfc3986 - To escape data according to standard Rc3986, set this option to `true` 
- escapeDataNLogLegacy - To escape data according to the old non-standard NLog style, set this option to `true`


## Other additions and changes

- `${exception}` - Added support for `AggregateException`
- Keeping variables during configuration reload (optional)
- Layout processinfo with support for custom Format-string
- DetectConsoleAvailable on (colored)Console disabled by default
- Callsite: added includeNamespace option

Bugfixes:

- Writing to the same file from multiple processes does not function when archiving with `concurrentWrites="true"` and `keepFileOpen="true"`
- NLog throws ConfigurationErrorsException when appsettings has invalid XML.


Other:

- Improved `[Obsolete]` warnings - include the Nlog version when it became obsolete
- FileTarget - Close stale file handles outside archive mutex lock #1513


## THANKS!

Thanks for the contibutions!

- @aireq
- @AndreGleichner
- @ie-zero
- @Jeinhaus
- @nazim9214
- @snakefoot
- @tetrodoxin

